[Music]
this is an assassin's teapot it can be
used to pour yourself a drink and to
pour a drink for your enemy
you can then
down your drink
to prove that the drink isn't poisoned
there's no poison in there don't worry
about the poison there is no poison but
then when your enemy takes a drink they
find out that it is poisoned and by the
way this doesn't require you to spend
the last few years building up an
immunity to iocan powder it works
straight off the bat no preparation
required that's because the assassin's
teapot can be used to pour three
different drinks which i've shown here
using three different colored liquids
and by the way if you plan to poison
your enemy i recommend using liquids of
the same color do i need to tell the
viewers that they shouldn't be trying to
poison people like legally just that it
would break the flow of the video film
myself having a fake phone call with a
lawyer in which i explain the problem
and so long as i say out loud don't try
to poison people then that should have
me covered
okay
click the way you choose the drink is by
sneakily covering up one of these holes
if you cover this hole you get a blue
drink if you cover this hole you get a
yellow drink if you cover no holes you
get a green drink so three drinks in
total though actually no four drinks
if you cover both holes you get the null
drink but how does it work
well you know me if i want to describe
how a hydrodynamic mechanism works i
like to make a transparent 2d version of
it i'll put a playlist of those videos
in the card in the description first i
needed to figure out what was going on
inside the teapot and a bit like with
the gloggle jug the only really sensible
way to do that was to hit it with a
hammer so you can see there are two
chambers here side by side and they both
lead up to the spout additionally one
chamber leads up to this hole the other
chamber leads to this hole
for the 2d version i don't want to put
them side by side because then it
wouldn't be 2d but i feel like i can put
them top to bottom and it should still
work and here it is so if i want a blue
drink i cover this hole
if i want a yellow drink i cover this
hole
and if i want a green drink i cover
neither of the holes
and for completeness here's the null
drink
similarly i could have a black coffee or
i could have milk or i could have a
milky coffee so that's how it works but
why does it work why is it that putting
your finger over different holes causes
different liquids to flow out well it
comes down to surface tension it's
similar to this demonstration you might
have seen before look i can pull water
from this bottle but if i turn the
bottle upside down no water pours out
the trick is that there's a gauze
covering the opening of the bottle so
when i pour it like this water can flow
out and air can flow in but when i turn
the bottle upside down for water to flow
out air would need to flow in and for
air to flow in surface tension would
need to be broken here's another example
where instead of a gauze there's a small
hole the hole is actually big enough to
push a straw up into and it floats to
the top of the bottle it's a really cool
trick you know strictly speaking
ultimately it's not surface tension
that's keeping the liquid in place it's
air pressure like the assassin's teapot
and these bottle tricks wouldn't work in
a vacuum so the reason the liquid
doesn't fall out of the assassin's
teapot when you have your thumb over the
hole is because the atmosphere is
pushing on it atmospheric pressure is
holding the liquid in place and that's
counter-intuitive like you think well
the real explanation is that
you know well if the liquid did fall out
a little bit it would create a vacuum
and the vacuum would pull the liquid
back in but there is no pulling force
there's only pushing force from the
atmosphere it's like when you suck on a
straw
it's not the suction that's pulling the
liquid up the straw it's the atmosphere
pushing the liquid up the straw and
that's really counter-intuitive because
you feel like well look that's me doing
the work i'm i'm sucking on the straw
i'm pulling the liquid up with my lungs
at this point i want to go off on a bit
of a tangent and talk about a type of
pedantry that i think
isn't always helpful like imagine you
say i'm sucking liquid up a straw now i
mean it's a weird thing to say out loud
but hypothetically and then an annoying
physicist comes along and says well
technically you're not sucking water up
a straw it's the atmosphere pushing it
up the straw and then in the next breath
that physicist might go on to talk about
the flow of positively charged holes in
a semiconductor well
holes don't flow and a hole can't have a
charge so why is it okay to talk about
the flow of positively charged holes
well the reason it's okay is because
it's useful
but i would also argue that it's useful
to talk about a suction force so long as
you keep the underlying physics in mind
you should be okay like for example you
can't just increase a suction force
indefinitely eventually when you get to
about 100 kilopascals it stops working
because you've run out of atmospheric
pressure the thing that's really doing
the work underneath similarly i think it
should be all right to talk about the
flow of cold like if i put an ice cube
in my drink the cold flows from the ice
cube into the drink of course that's not
really what's happening the warmth from
the drink is flowing into the ice cube
and so it gets colder
but it's useful to talk about the flow
of cold again so long as you understand
the underlying physics like you can't
just keep pumping cold into something
because eventually you reach absolute
zero by the way these animations are
from a video i made about how all leds
are secretly solar panels and all solar
panels are secretly leds the link's in
the card and in the description okay
tangent over the point is we all know
that for the water to get out air needs
to be able to get in and with your
finger off the hole well i can get in at
the top but if you cover over the hole
the only way for the air to get in is
through the spout and that's where
surface tension comes in surface tension
acts to minimize surface area
you might think well one way for the
water to get out is if the air can
sneak past it on the way but what would
that look like well it might look a bit
like this you've got a drip of water
starting on one side and on the other
side you've got a bubble of air forming
but see how that increases the surface
area of the water and because surface
tension acts to decrease the surface
area that's not energetically favorable
and so you don't get this bubbling
effect and instead the liquid is trapped
inside the chamber this is also the
principle behind a magic trick by the
way sometimes called inexhaustible
bottle or thinker drink it's usually a
bit more elaborate it'll have more
chambers and different options for
drinks but anyway you can read all about
it in my kids book sciences magic
available for more good bookstores so
these are magnets yeah
and then these metal sticks magnets and
then when they drive around
they also go around with it
and that makes it spin yeah and some of
them go
like this that was my daughter
spontaneously explaining the mechanics
of the thing that she just built the
thing she just built was from a kiwiko
project the sponsor of this video
actually my kids have had a kiwiko
subscription since way before they
approached me for sponsorship so i can
tell you a bit about them it's a
subscription service where a box comes
in the post every month and everything
you need for the projects is in the box
you never need to run off to the shops
or anything like that and the projects
are stem projects there's eight
different subscription lines for every
possible age group you know something
that i haven't talked about before that
i really appreciate about kiwi co is the
spontaneous stem discussions that arise
from it you know i'm the sort of person
who like a fact will pop into my mind
and i'll say hey kids did you know this
thing about the moon you know whatever
and you know it's completely out of
context and the kids are sort of like
well okay fine you know so these days
i'm on the lookout for you know stem
discussions that are within the context
of what we're doing and kiwico is great
for that because the kids are so
invested in the projects already like
they're building these things they're
excited about them and then as you saw
with the explanation these stem
discussions arise spontaneously and it's
really amazing to see we've got a promo
for the holiday season perhaps you know
someone who would appreciate a kiwiko
subscription in which case you can get
the first month absolutely free using my
special url if you go to kiwico dot com
forward slash steve mold the link is
also in the description so check out
kiwi code today i hope you enjoyed this
video if you did don't forget to hit
subscribe and the algorithm thinks
you'll enjoy this video next
so do you think the air is doing the
same thing yeah you're saying that the
air from the candle the candle is making
the air push up
on those red things
now i see